One of the most important people in AI
just open sourced something that I think
changes how we use AI in business. And
I'm not being dramatic. Andre Carpathy,
the co-founder of OpenAI, former head of
AI at Tesla, the guy who actually coined
VOD coding. He is one of the most
respected voices in AI research period.
And he just put out an open- source
project called Auto Research. It's
already got over 42,000 stars on GitHub.
Fortune wrote about it. Shopify CEO. He
used it overnight and got results that
frankly caught a lot of people off
guard. But most of the coverage out
there, it is either aimed at machine
learning engineers or just surface level
hype. Now, nobody's really explaining
what this actually means for someone who
runs a business and uses AI every single
day. And that is what this video is. I'm
going to be explaining what auto
research actually is. I'll also show you
the actual [music] repo on GitHub. And
I'll walk through how the loop actually
works with this diagram. And I'll be
going through real use cases where
people are already applying this. and
then I'll show you guys a simple demo
inside of Cloud Code so you can see the
pattern actually running for yourself,
not just some fancy production setup.
Now, if you're new to the channel, my
name is Nick. I spent the last two years
helping companies implement AI and
driving real leverage inside of their
businesses, driving over $5 million in
bottom line revenue across our clients
and helping hundreds of entrepreneurs
all start their own successful AI
business. Now, I say all of that to show
you that this is what I do every single
day. But anyways, let's get into it. So
to actually explain auto research in
plain English, when you want to improve
something, whether that's a cold email,
landing page, whatever, you do it by
hand. So you write a version, you then
test it, and then you look at the data,
and you could write a better version
from that. You test and test again over
and over again. That's just
optimization. We do all of it. The
problem is with that, it's very slow.
You run maybe one or [music] two tests a
week, and you have to stay in the loop
making every decision. Now, Carpathy's
idea was what if you just let an AI
agent do that entire cycle on its own.
Now, the agent, it makes a change. It
then tests it and checks if the metric
actually went up or if it went down and
it keeps the [music] change if it
worked. If it didn't, it'll just throw
it away and repeat all night long.
There's no human needed. And that is
what auto research is. It's just
automated trial and error with a score
that tells the agent if things are
actually improving. [music] That is the
whole thing. So, here's the repo. You
can see the star count up here. And look
what is actually inside because people
are often over complicating things
especially this the whole thing it is
basically just three files that actually
matter. So prepare.py this is just a
setup file. It's pretty simple. You run
it once to download the data and then
train a tokenizer. You can just forget
about pretty much all of that after
that. Now we back up and down here we
have train.py. This is about 630 lines
and this is the code that the agent
actually is going to be editing. This is
the thing being improved upon. And back
up one more, we also have the program.m
MD. This all it is, it's just a markdown
file with instructions for the agent. So
it's basically a prompt that tells the
agent how to actually run the
experiments. So if we look at what is in
here, it says, you know, you can modify
the code, you can run the training, and
then you can check the results. Now, if
the metric actually improved, you could
keep the change and of course commit to
it. Now, if it got worse or it was to a
detriment, you could just revert that
and you could try something else. And
then this line, if you just scroll down
even further, it says this, never stop.
The human might be asleep. Like that is
the philosophy. You set it up, go to
sleep, and it runs experiments until the
morning. Now, Carpathy, he let this run
for about 2 days on just a small
language model. And the agent found
around 20 improvements that all stacked
on top of each other. Now, one of them,
it was a bug in his own code, a missing
scaler multiplier that was making the
attention mechanism just too diffused.
He had missed it himself for months and
the agent had caught it overnight. But
the thing that really made this blow up,
it was Shopify. Now, Shopify CEO Toby
Lou, I'm probably completely butchering
his name, but anyways, he ran auto
research on Liquid. Now, if you're not
familiar, Liquid is just Shopify's
template engine. It's just a 20-year-old
Ruby codebase that powers every Shopify
store pretty much on the entire
internet. He ran about 120 automated
experiments over the course of about 2
days. Now the result he got 53% faster
and 61% fewer memory allocations. Now
this is all on code that engineers have
been previously optimizing for about two
decades. He even acknowledged that it
might be somewhat overfit but it said
that there were absolutely amazing ideas
in the results. All right. Now let me
show you guys the loop visually. So with
this you start by reading whatever you
are trying to improve and then from
there you make one change just one that
is important and then you just run a
test and you can get a score from that.
So you're asking yourself like did the
score improve. Obviously as I mentioned
earlier if yes commit to the change and
then log what happened and then loop
back to the top. If not you revert it
throw it away try something different.
And the reason that this actually works
is not because the agent is actually
smarter than you at any single decision.
It's solely because it does not stop
there. Over 50 runs, over a 100 runs,
even 500 runs, it will find the stuff
that you just would not manually because
you would get tired or distracted after
about 10 or so if that. Now, Carpathy,
he built this for training any machine
learning models. But the loop itself,
the pattern, it works for anything when
you have three specific things. One,
something that you can actually change.
Number two is a number that you can
track. And three, some way to actually
test it. usually through an API. That's
quite literally it. So if you have
gotten those three things, you can auto
research it and people there are already
doing this across a bunch of different
areas. So you got cold email where you
can change the copy, you can track any
reply rates or if you're using the
instantly or smart lead API to deploy
campaigns and per pull any performance
data. There are people reporting going
from 2% reply rates up to 8 to 12%
within a few weeks of just running this
kind of loop. What the agent does, it
just writes the challenger versions, it
tests them against the baseline and it
would keep any of the winners. Another
area, you can do this for landing pages
where you change the headline, you
change the CTA, the layout, even you
track any conversion rates or you can
just push changes through your sites
builder's API, whether that's web flow,
framer, whatever the agent, it will
deploy a variation, check the
conversions, and then keep the winner,
try and try again. Lastly, another use
case is the ad creatives. So you can
change the copy, you can change the
image, you can change the audience and
you just track the click-through rate or
the cost per acquisition. You can
connect this to meta ads API or even
Google ads whatever software or whatever
third party you guys are using and the
agent it of course it would spin up
variations watch the number kill the
underperformers and then you could
double down and scale whatever is
actually working. Another one we have
code performance. So you can change the
actual code. You can track the execution
time from that. And that is literally
what Shopify CEO did on a codebase that
has been around for about 20 years being
optimized up until this point completely
manually. And the one that I am going to
be demoing for you today is prompt
optimization where you can change the
prompt itself. You track the accuracy
against a test suite and you don't even
need an external API for this one. Cloud
code it will handle the whole thing for
you. So now you could also do this with
chatbot scripts, newsletter subject
lines, voice agent prompts, pricing
pages, the list, it just keeps going.
Anything with a number and something to
change. Now, one thing that I do want to
be straight about is this works best
when the feedback is actually fast. So
if you can run a test in about 30
seconds, you could do a 100 experiments
overnight. But if each test is going to
take about a week to get real meaningful
data, the loop is going to be a lot
slower. Still, it would work, just not
overnight results. So just think about
what your business gives you data
fastest and then start there. All right.
So I want to show you guys the simplest
possible demo of this. I'm not going to
over complicate this. No fancy
infrastructure, no cloud GPUs, no crazy
setup. I just want you to see the loop
working so you can actually understand
how it actually feels to run this thing.
So here's what we're going to do. I'm
going to be taking a mediocre prompt,
one that actually extracts data from any
customer emails. It's going to start off
getting maybe half of the answers right.
Then I'm going to let Claude Code just
run the auto research loop on it. and
we're going to watch the accuracy just
climb in real time. So it's the same
exact pattern that Carpathy used. It's
just going to be applied to a prompt
instead of a machine learning model. Now
you're going to need about two different
things for this. Either an IDE, so I am
using cursor to use Claude code and of
course you will need Claude code itself.
That's it. You don't need a GPU. Let's
get into it. All right. Now the first
thing I'm going to do is just clone
Carpathy's auto research repo from
GitHub that I was showing you earlier.
So that cloud code, it will have the
full context of how the pattern is
actually going to be working. So it can
read the program.mmd file showed off the
train.py and understand the entire
setup. So I'm just going to type out
clone this repo in the current directory
and then I just provide it with a GitHub
link. We'll run that and see what we
get. All right, there it is. Only took a
few seconds. So you can see all the
files in the sidebar here. We got the
prepared pi, the train pi, programs.md,
all the stuff that we had just talked
about, but we're not going to run any of
this directly. We're just going to use
it as a reference when we actually build
our own version. Now we're going to
paste in something else from there. What
I'm going to say is read the program MD
train the pi from the audit research
repo we just cloned to understand
carpathy's experiment loop pattern and
now I want to apply this exact same
pattern but instead of optimizing the
train pi for validation loss I want to
optimize a data extraction prompt for
accuracy. So I'm giving it some specific
instructions to create folders. So
programm this is going to be for
instructions for you the agent and to
run autonomous loop then read the prompt
and evaluate or run the eval pie then
check the score make one small change to
the prompt rerun the eval keep that if
it improved or get reset if worse and
log the result repeat forever until 15
or 15 or it's interrupted. Number two
the prompt at MD. So this is just a
deliberately mediocre starter prompt
that tells an LLM to extract any of the
JSON fields like the name, the email,
service type, so on so forth from
customer incore emails and then the eval
pie. So this is a Python script that
loads prompt. MD as the system prompt
and then it runs it against 15 test
cases using anthropic API compares
outputs to expected JSON and prints a
score like score eight out of 15. Now,
also include tricky cases like budget
ranges with written as words, ambiguous
service types, informal names, and
multiple services requested. For the
rest of them, I'm just giving a little
bit of context about everything else
like the test cases, the experiment log,
and the readme. And to make the test
cases realistic and also varied, some
easy, some delivery tricky. So, the
initial prompt scores run about 7 to N
out of 15. Now why I'm actually doing
this is I just have to provide a context
about our specific use cases and how we
actually want to be utilizing auto
research for our projects. So with that
I just need Claude code to just
understand card pathy's repo understand
how the pattern works and then build us
a custom version for the prompt
optimization. So you can see right now
it's first going to create the prompt
optimizer and then in a second it should
just be reading through the files
getting all of the context and then
setting up our prompt optimizer folder
and creating the eval script the test
cases the starter prompt the whole
thing. Cool. So this just finished
running. We can open up this at the top.
We have the prompt optimizer. This is
consisting of the eval experiment log
the program prompt the readme and the
test cases of the JSON as well. Let's
walk through each one. First up, let's
go through the program.md file. Let me
expand this a little bit. But what's
going on here? Like I mentioned earlier,
this is going to be our starter prompt.
So, it is deliberately basic. So, it
just says to extract these fields,
return the JSON. There's no edge case
handling. It doesn't know what to do
when somebody writes 10 to 12,000
instead of a number. It also does not
handle saying like, I don't know what I
need. That is by design. Now, we want it
to be very mediocre so we can actually
watch it get better in real time. We can
now open up our test cases JSON. And
with this, this is going to be our 15
test emails. But if we look at this one,
the second one, the budget is written
out as words. So this one, the person
doesn't know what service they actually
want. And then this one, if we scroll
down a little bit further, they are just
reaching out on behalf of another
person. And these, I would expect, are
going to trip up the basic prompt. Let
me just cover the program file and
expand this a little bit. So this just
tells the agent how to actually loop. So
again, it is the same idea as car
pathies. You run the eval, you check the
score, make one change, and then you
test again. And you can keep or revert
and then log everything. And it's not
going to stop from there. Now the next
piece, this is going to be the actual
installation. And the first thing that
we want to paste out is to run these
commands. And that is to install
Enthropic. So I'll run that first. So
that just finished installing. It'll
only take a second. And now we are going
to run export and just insert our API
key that we are getting from Enthropic.
So if you don't know where to find that,
just search up enthropic API key on
Google. You'll be able to log into your
account. You may need about $5 at least
for testing to start utilizing this. Now
that we've got that in there, it says
API key is set. We're going to ignore
what it's asking for us to do and we're
going to say run cdrompt optimizer and
everything else from there. By the way,
if you guys want to get access to these
entire commands, you can find this
inside of my free school community.
We've got about 18,000 members in there.
It's all just a bunch of agency owners,
entrepreneurs, business owners looking
to start and grow their businesses. Just
a great place to meet and connect with
others and learn strategies and ask for
help. Great. So, now that we got that in
there, we are going to put in one last
thing and that is the prompt optimizer.
And now to run the eval pie. So, we'll
see this. We will be able to see each
test case just being graded one by one
with the pass or fail. and we'll go
ahead and proceed with the request that
it's asking for and the permissions. All
right, moment of truth. Here's what we
got on our starting prompt score of
these 15 emails. So, right away, we got
a baseline score of about seven out of
15 and it presents the main failure
patterns. So, we have has existing
website returning null instead of
inferring from context tests and the
name extracting issue. So including
titles like doctor, missing last names
from informal emails, the budget range
handling, so averaging instead of taking
lower bound, rounding up the urgency
inference, so end of month not being
flagged as high, and the company name
punctuation, it's often missing trailing
periods. So it mentions this is a good
starting point for the optimization
loop. And it asks if we want to read the
programm that we have provided it. Once
again, that is this file right here,
just the instructions. and to start the
autonomous optimization. Now, instead of
just complying, we're just going to go
ahead and say read the program.m MD and
begin the autonomous optimization loop.
Do not stop until you hit 15 or 15 or I
interrupt you. So, we'll run that off
and it is now going to start the loop.
And from this point on, it is going to
be completely autonomous. I'm just going
to be watching this. So, what's actually
going on in the back end? It's going to
read the prompt, run all of the eval,
analyze the failures, and then, you
know, form its hypothesis, edit the
prompts MD, run the eval again, and then
it'll just keep comparing the scores
over and over again. So, whilst this is
actually running, I'm going to be
opening up the experiment log file and
see what is going to be popping up as
this is running in the back end. So,
right here, we have experiment one
that's just finished up. It's now
working on experiment 2. So, with this,
every run is being tracked. So the
hypothesis, the score before and after,
whether it kept it or reverted it. Now
even if you or I stopped the loop right
now, the log it is really pure gold.
Like it is a record of what works and
what does not work for this specific
task. So every now and then I do have to
provide it with permissions. But
anyways, you can see it with experiment
one. So here's the change. It clarified
it has an existing website must always
be true or false, never null. Then we
have the hypothesis like most failures
were from existing website returning
null. The score, this is getting a
little bit better. Now it's 10 out of
15. Previously it was three points
lower. The status keep this. And then
the failures test two. So the name was
missing which was the last name. And
we'll now run on to experiment two. That
should be popping up soon as well. Now
experiment two. This just populated. So
ultimately we got a score of 12 out of
15. So hopefully next time it'll be 15
out of 15 and it'll just keep improving
on itself. Next up we got experiment
four. So this came out to be about 14
out of 15. So once again it's providing
us with all of the changes, the scores,
the status, the failures, and I believe
we just saw somewhere around here that
it was 15 out of 15. Um but we'll see
experiment five coming up. Awesome. Now
this completely finished. We can see
down here experiment five. This is now
15 out of 15. And you guys can see I am
on the claude council. This entire
thing, it only costed 24 cents and now
we have a great point and great
positioning to move forward and optimize
and iterate. So, we're going to be
getting better results within our
emails, thus ultimately going to get us
better results and more clients. Now,
then in itself, that was a very simple
demo, only about 15 test cases with one
prompt. But the pattern it is going to
be the same whether you're optimizing a
prompt, optimizing a code email, a
landing page, a piece of code,
optimizing, you know, a YouTube
thumbnail, which by the way, I'm using
right now and having my team deploy. So,
we're testing which thumbnails work,
which ones do not. I'll keep you guys
posted on what we actually come back
with. But the loop is the loop. But with
all of that being said, like what Car
Pathy put out, it is not just a simple
repo. This is actually a pattern. And
that pattern, it is dead simple. You
take something that you want to improve.
You define a score. You let an AI agent
iterate on it in a tight loop. And the
reason this matters for people like us
is that this is how the best companies
are actually going to be operating. Like
your competitor who runs 30 tests on
their landing page per year, you run 30
per day because you've got a loop
running in the background. Who has the
better landing page by December? It's
not even going to be close. Now, let me
be real about a few things. You do need
a fast feedback for this to work well.
So, if it takes a week to get data from
a test, the loop is slow. You need an
actual number to optimize for, not just
vibes like not does this feel better or
anything like that. You also again need
a score. So whether that's pass or fail,
percentage, response time, reply rate,
something that you can count and you
also need some way for the agent to
actually make changes and test them
through an API, a file, a CLI,
something. Now the agent, it also is not
replacing your judgment on big picture
strategies. So, it's not going to tell
you which market to go after, but for
execution, like the copy, the targeting,
the prompt engineering, the little
optimizations that compound over time,
it is completely unbeatable. Now, I only
covered just about one use case, but as
you guys saw, you can use this for so
many different things and go deeper on
cloud code and understand how to build
stuff like this. And if you want to be
around other people who are actually
building with AI every single day, we've
got a free school community with over
18,000 members, as I mentioned earlier.
You can check that out. Or our weekly AI
newsletter giving you practical
strategies every single week to growing
or starting your business. Or of course,
if you're looking for us to actually
come in and implement or train your team
to become AI native and automate all
your processes, then you can schedule in
a free audit with our team down below,
links in the description. I will also be
linking the auto research repo and the
prompt optimizer demo in the description
so you can clone it and try this
yourself. Now, if you guys got value
from this, hit the subscribe. really
does make a difference on YouTube. And
I'll keep making these and keep you guys
updated.